# python-complete-example

## Project description

A complete example in Python to show the basic tips to develop in Python

The project is simple. It takes a file, read line by line, and, each line, is splitted to operate element by element.

## Files detailed

* .gitignore - contains extensions, files and directories which can't be uploaded to the repo. It means, repo should only have code files. You have to avoid upload files such as:
  * log - log files generated in local machines are completely unnecessary for the rest of the team.
  * ide files - Other developers in the same team could deploy in different IDE, so uploading files generated by IDE like ".idea" could brake other configurations.
* README.md - quick documentation in [Markdown syntax](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/). This documentation can be exported to PDF in easy and quick way.
* logs directory - directory where logs files are stored
* requirements.txt - list of dependencies
* example directory - directory with some examples of files to work with

## Project configuration

### Requirements

* Conda installed

### Create environment and install libraries

~~~
$ conda create -n pce python=3
$ conda activate pce
(pce)$ pip install -r requirements.txt
~~~

## Best practices tips

* Don't reinvent the wheel - use libraries. In this project we are using:
  * loguru - log framework
* Use a logger - Never, never, never use _println_, because you could overload the disk. In this example we are working with loguru.
* Avoid string constants inside code - we strongly recommend using a properties files to store all the constants. In this project we are working with **configurations/xxx_config.py**
* Use custom exceptions - create custom exceptions to manage and control your errors
* Don't kill the messenger - if you catch an exception, please log the message that you catch
* Avoid "+" in string concatenation - use [f-strings](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0498/#concatenating-strings) instead. This method is more secure and efficient
* Be paranoid - you have to be paranoid checking potential errors like null pointers
* Delegate functionality - don't create a huge class with the whole code, divide functionality in little pills
* Write code thinking the reviewr is a serial killer
  * use autoexplained variable names
  * use comments inside the code
  * use java doc for all your methods
* DEBUG - if you have running errors the best way to detect a fix them is using the debugger

## Git flow commands

1. Clone from repo `$ git clone git@github.com:oscarcpz/java-complete-example.git`
2. Create **develop** branch if it does not exists `$ git push -u origin develop`
3. Check status `$ git status`
4. Change to **develop** branch `$ git checkout develop`
5. Add all modified files `$ git add`
6. Commit changes `$ git commit -m "Changes..."`
7. Push to repo `$ git push`

### Move develop to main
1. `$ git checkout main`
2. `$ git merge develop`
3. `$ git commit -m "merge from develop"`
4. `$ git push`

## Run

~~~
$ python main.py
~~~

## Run tests

~~~
python -m unittest tests/*
~~~

## References

* [Loguru](https://github.com/Delgan/loguru)
* [Tests](https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html)
* [Gitflow](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows/gitflow-workflow)